TO-DO.md, before:

## Disorganized To-Do List

| Added              | Item      |
| :-------------           | :------    |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Rewrite [105. Packaging for Deployment](instructions/105-Packaging-for-Deployment.md) |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Rewrite [104. Build Targets](instructions/104-Build-Targets.md). |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | `mm-choose-build.sh` does not find GPU enabled builds. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | See if latest Cosmo commit solves the 400 problem in server &mdash; [Commit Details](https://github.com/jart/cosmopolitan/commit/b444b3a6e0d442162f800142a349371386b374c6). Still need to keep a slow roll on Cosmo changes. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | Find the right source and dest folder in `420-Copy-Executables-to-Share.sh`. Using old logic right now. Does not work. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | Build and test options in an `mm-build-test-options.sh` script, called by `mm-environment-variables.sh`. I could put `--parallel` for CMake, prefered LLM to use in testing, use chat UI, etc. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | mm-choose-gpus.sh needs to let user choose what they previously chose easily. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | If mmojo-server does not have a model to load after parsing zip, support folder, args file, and command line, should look for first zip available in zip, support, or executable / working directory. This would let me package a master APE and graft a model on later. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | Go through all scripts and make sure descriptions are correct. Some have been copied, not edited. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | First paragraph is wrong about what we're going to build. [400-Build-Mmojo-Server.md](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/400-Build-Mmojo-Server.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26         | Next update of llama.cpp: Can I just copy loading-mmojo.html to loading.html and forget about changes in server-mmojo.cpp? |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Is it safe to use the latest Cosmo again? Changes started mid-November and broke the build of the Cosmo library. No. We get 400 responses to our API requests when running the server. Nothing shows up in building before that. Grrrr. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Do I still need to rollback the new llama.cpp webui so I can run it non-root-path? I do as of latest commit of llama.cpp I'm letting through. [401. Prepare to Build](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/401-Prepare-to-Build.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Instructions to [205. Create Mmojo Share](205-Create-Mmojo-Share.md). I have a draft of these in the Knowledge Appliance Recipe. Should create folders and populate certs too. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | `mmojo-server-args` should be a json/yaml file. It's a cool solution inherited from Cosmo and llamafile, but it's also awkward. See the top of the `main()` function in [`server-mmojo.cpp`](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp). It bends my brain every time I look at it. LOL. |



---
### Finished

| Resolved              | Added              | Issue      |
| :-------------           | :------    | :------    |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Change `CHOSEN_MODEL_SHORT_NAME` to `CHOSEN_MODEL_MNEMONIC`. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | `410-Assemble-Cosmo-APE.sh` needs to be `410-Assemble-APEs.sh`, needs to assemble more than just `mmojo-server-ape`. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 411-Build-APE-Compatible.md --> 411-Build-APEs-Compatible.md, etc. Also, Dogpile versions. Idea is we build all the llama.cpp targets as APEs. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Fix or add *Update Local Mmojo Server Repo* to each page. `mm-env` |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 410-Build-APEs.md and 420-Build-Executables.md intro pages. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 421-Build-CPU-Compatible.md --> 421-Build-Executables-Compatible.md, etc. Idea is we build all the llama.cpp targets as build platform executables. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | Default certs to put in the certs directory. Should be generic certs and empty CA file. Investigate `mkcert` for making a CA and placeholders. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | /mmojo prefix for support folder needs to be /support and the same across banding. See https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/work-in-progress/scripts/521-Add-Args-to-Package.sh - Fix mmojo-server.cpp. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | `branding` parameter for the 401 scripts. No need to have duplicates.|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;29 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | APE build and packaging scripts need a `$branding` parameter so we can use the scripts for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;29 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | APE mmojo-server executable build and package names aren't quite right. Build name should have compatible / performant -- mmojo-server-compatible, mmojo-server-performant. Package name should have that + model name, if present. Actual branding for distribution is a downstream decision. I.e. compatible might just be called `mmojo-server-[model]`, performant might be called `mmojo-server-turbo-[model]`. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;27 | 2025&minus;11&minus;26         | Consolidate the APE packaging scripts with variation parameter. 511 and 512. Last one is `510-Copy-APE-Package-to-Mmojo-Share.sh` |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Pick performance level for Cosmo library and OpenSSL. Not bothering. Too much work for too little gain. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | For the APE builds, can I remove `-DCOSMOCC=1` from the compiles? CMake warns not used. Needed for C++ compiler, not for CMake.|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | Implement the Copy Certificates step. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Routine update of llama.cpp. Can I just copy loading-mmojo.html to loading.html and forget about changes in server-mmojo.cpp? Solve that loading thing another day. This update was some work. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | #defines for default_args and mmojo-server-support filenames in server-mmojo.cpp, so they can be improved, plus replaced easily for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Script to pick performance level for APE builds: Levels might be: (1) compatible, (2) performant. If users of this repo want more control, they can fork it and change it. Probably should suggest that. Keep it simple and easy! I split out compatible and performant APE builds. Need to figure out what performant should look like for aarch64 (arm64). |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Why do mm-work-in-progress and mm-main-branch show a quote error, then when run again, do fine? Goofy, not that anyone else will use them. Seems to be fixed after last PR. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Move npm updates to dependencies? Test to make sure it doesn't screw up mmojo or dogpile builds. Works great. [401. Prepare to Build](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/401-Prepare-to-Build.md)|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Figure out which installed dependency is putting up the purple email server screen. Figured out it's `ocaml-core`. Do we need it? Nope. Remove it. https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/207-Install-Dependencies.md |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Fix the logic in [`-mm-mount-mmojo-share.sh`](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/scripts/-mm-mount-mmojo-share.sh). Should try drvfs, then fall back to cifs, or vice versa. This worked! |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Finish packaging step for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | If I'm not feeding models to a GPU, do I need to align them in the APE packages? I think "no". If not, no need for mm-zipalign, so get rid of it. See llamafile explanation of why aligning is needed here: https://github.com/mozilla-ai/llamafile/blob/main/docs/technical_details.md#zip-weights-embedding -- It appears that `mmap()` from Cosmo libc isn't handling llama.cpp's call to access a .gguf in the `/zip` path. May or may not fix this another day. Only affects APE. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Are `--mlock` and `--no-mmap` needed as parameters when we test builds or package builds? Seems like they should be added by one of our users for better performance / behavior. *Not needed for testing.* Packaging?<br/> It appears that `mmap()` from Cosmo libc isn't handling llama.cpp's call to access a .gguf in the `/zip` path. So `--no-mmap` would be necessary for embedded .ggufs in APE packages. Still investigating. Added an `--mmap` param to override on command-line for future use. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;22 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | Use `mm-choose-model.sh` in [402-Prepare-to-Test.md](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/402-Prepare-to-Test.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | Finish instruction file renumbering step for Dogpile. |

Commit message:

Misc (#56)
* Update 207-Install-Dependencies.md

* Update 301-Download-Models.md

* Update 302-Copy-Models.md

* Update TO-DO.md

* Update TO-DO.md

* Update 510-APE-Builds.md

* Update 511-APE-Compatible.md

* Create 500-Build-lllama-server.md

* Create 501-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Create 502-Prepare-to-Test.md

* Rename 500-Build-lllama-server.md to 500-Build-lllama-server.md

* Rename 501-Prepare-to-Build.md to 501-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 502-Prepare-to-Test.md

* Update 501-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update TO-DO.md

* Update 611-APE-Compatible.md

* Update 612-APE-Performant.md

* Update 613-Naked-APE-Compatible.md

* Update 613-Naked-APE-Compatible.md

* Update 614-Naked-APE-Performant.md

* Update 613-Naked-APE-Compatible.md

* Update 614-Naked-APE-Performant.md

* Update TO-DO.md

* Rename 500-Build-lllama-server.md to 500-Build-lllama-server.md

* Rename 501-Prepare-to-Build.md to 501-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Rename 502-Prepare-to-Test.md to 502-Prepare-to-Test.md

* Create 503-Debug-Build.md

* Update 503-Debug-Build.md

* Update 512-APE-Performant.md

* Update 610-APE-Packages.md

* Update README.md

* Update 208-mm-Scripts.md

TO-DO.md, after:

## Disorganized To-Do List

| Added              | Item      |
| :-------------           | :------    |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;07         | 510 should be platform builds, 620 APE builds. 610/620 as well. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;07         | Audit mm-environment-variables.sh. Is there any unused garbage left? |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;07         | Unbranded build llama-sercer 500/600 track. Easiest way to build and deploy llama-server. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Rewrite [105. Packaging for Deployment](instructions/105-Packaging-for-Deployment.md) |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Rewrite [104. Build Targets](instructions/104-Build-Targets.md). |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | `mm-choose-build.sh` does not find GPU enabled builds. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | See if latest Cosmo commit solves the 400 problem in server &mdash; [Commit Details](https://github.com/jart/cosmopolitan/commit/b444b3a6e0d442162f800142a349371386b374c6). Still need to keep a slow roll on Cosmo changes. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | Find the right source and dest folder in `420-Copy-Executables-to-Share.sh`. Using old logic right now. Does not work. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | Build and test options in an `mm-build-test-options.sh` script, called by `mm-environment-variables.sh`. I could put `--parallel` for CMake, prefered LLM to use in testing, use chat UI, etc. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | mm-choose-gpus.sh needs to let user choose what they previously chose easily. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | Go through all scripts and make sure descriptions are correct. Some have been copied, not edited. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | First paragraph is wrong about what we're going to build. [400-Build-Mmojo-Server.md](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/400-Build-Mmojo-Server.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26         | Next update of llama.cpp: Can I just copy loading-mmojo.html to loading.html and forget about changes in server-mmojo.cpp? |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Is it safe to use the latest Cosmo again? Changes started mid-November and broke the build of the Cosmo library. No. We get 400 responses to our API requests when running the server. Nothing shows up in building before that. Grrrr. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Do I still need to rollback the new llama.cpp webui so I can run it non-root-path? I do as of latest commit of llama.cpp I'm letting through. [401. Prepare to Build](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/401-Prepare-to-Build.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Instructions to [205. Create Mmojo Share](205-Create-Mmojo-Share.md). I have a draft of these in the Knowledge Appliance Recipe. Should create folders and populate certs too. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | `mmojo-server-args` should be a json/yaml file. It's a cool solution inherited from Cosmo and llamafile, but it's also awkward. See the top of the `main()` function in [`server-mmojo.cpp`](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp). It bends my brain every time I look at it. LOL. |



---
### Finished

| Resolved              | Added              | Issue      |
| :-------------           | :------    | :------    |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;07 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | If mmojo-server does not have a model to load after parsing zip, support folder, args file, and command line, should look for first zip available in zip, support, or executable / working directory. This would let me package a master APE and graft a model on later. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Change `CHOSEN_MODEL_SHORT_NAME` to `CHOSEN_MODEL_MNEMONIC`. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;02         | `410-Assemble-Cosmo-APE.sh` needs to be `410-Assemble-APEs.sh`, needs to assemble more than just `mmojo-server-ape`. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 411-Build-APE-Compatible.md --> 411-Build-APEs-Compatible.md, etc. Also, Dogpile versions. Idea is we build all the llama.cpp targets as APEs. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;03 | 2025&minus;12&minus;03         | Fix or add *Update Local Mmojo Server Repo* to each page. `mm-env` |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 410-Build-APEs.md and 420-Build-Executables.md intro pages. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;02 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | 421-Build-CPU-Compatible.md --> 421-Build-Executables-Compatible.md, etc. Idea is we build all the llama.cpp targets as build platform executables. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | Default certs to put in the certs directory. Should be generic certs and empty CA file. Investigate `mkcert` for making a CA and placeholders. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | /mmojo prefix for support folder needs to be /support and the same across banding. See https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/work-in-progress/scripts/521-Add-Args-to-Package.sh - Fix mmojo-server.cpp. |
| 2025&minus;12&minus;01 | 2025&minus;12&minus;01         | `branding` parameter for the 401 scripts. No need to have duplicates.|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;29 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | APE build and packaging scripts need a `$branding` parameter so we can use the scripts for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;29 | 2025&minus;11&minus;27         | APE mmojo-server executable build and package names aren't quite right. Build name should have compatible / performant -- mmojo-server-compatible, mmojo-server-performant. Package name should have that + model name, if present. Actual branding for distribution is a downstream decision. I.e. compatible might just be called `mmojo-server-[model]`, performant might be called `mmojo-server-turbo-[model]`. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;27 | 2025&minus;11&minus;26         | Consolidate the APE packaging scripts with variation parameter. 511 and 512. Last one is `510-Copy-APE-Package-to-Mmojo-Share.sh` |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Pick performance level for Cosmo library and OpenSSL. Not bothering. Too much work for too little gain. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | For the APE builds, can I remove `-DCOSMOCC=1` from the compiles? CMake warns not used. Needed for C++ compiler, not for CMake.|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;25         | Implement the Copy Certificates step. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;26 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Routine update of llama.cpp. Can I just copy loading-mmojo.html to loading.html and forget about changes in server-mmojo.cpp? Solve that loading thing another day. This update was some work. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | #defines for default_args and mmojo-server-support filenames in server-mmojo.cpp, so they can be improved, plus replaced easily for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Script to pick performance level for APE builds: Levels might be: (1) compatible, (2) performant. If users of this repo want more control, they can fork it and change it. Probably should suggest that. Keep it simple and easy! I split out compatible and performant APE builds. Need to figure out what performant should look like for aarch64 (arm64). |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Why do mm-work-in-progress and mm-main-branch show a quote error, then when run again, do fine? Goofy, not that anyone else will use them. Seems to be fixed after last PR. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;25 | 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Move npm updates to dependencies? Test to make sure it doesn't screw up mmojo or dogpile builds. Works great. [401. Prepare to Build](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/401-Prepare-to-Build.md)|
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Figure out which installed dependency is putting up the purple email server screen. Figured out it's `ocaml-core`. Do we need it? Nope. Remove it. https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/207-Install-Dependencies.md |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;23         | Fix the logic in [`-mm-mount-mmojo-share.sh`](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/scripts/-mm-mount-mmojo-share.sh). Should try drvfs, then fall back to cifs, or vice versa. This worked! |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Finish packaging step for Dogpile. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | If I'm not feeding models to a GPU, do I need to align them in the APE packages? I think "no". If not, no need for mm-zipalign, so get rid of it. See llamafile explanation of why aligning is needed here: https://github.com/mozilla-ai/llamafile/blob/main/docs/technical_details.md#zip-weights-embedding -- It appears that `mmap()` from Cosmo libc isn't handling llama.cpp's call to access a .gguf in the `/zip` path. May or may not fix this another day. Only affects APE. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;23 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21         | Are `--mlock` and `--no-mmap` needed as parameters when we test builds or package builds? Seems like they should be added by one of our users for better performance / behavior. *Not needed for testing.* Packaging?<br/> It appears that `mmap()` from Cosmo libc isn't handling llama.cpp's call to access a .gguf in the `/zip` path. So `--no-mmap` would be necessary for embedded .ggufs in APE packages. Still investigating. Added an `--mmap` param to override on command-line for future use. |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;22 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | Use `mm-choose-model.sh` in [402-Prepare-to-Test.md](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server/blob/main/instructions/402-Prepare-to-Test.md) |
| 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | 2025&minus;11&minus;21 | Finish instruction file renumbering step for Dogpile. |
