instructions/dogpile/401-Prepare-to-Build.md, before:

## 401. Prepare to Build
### About Dogpile
**Dogpile** is an example of a branded developer experience. [Read more about Dogpile](400-Build-Dogpile.md).

---
### About this Step
In this step, we will clone the Mmojo-Server repo, fix problems that affect building with Cosmopolitan, and customize things for building Dogpile.

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
<details>
  <summary><b>Update Local Mmojo Server Repo</b> &mdash; Expand if you haven't today.</summary>
  
Have you updated your local clone of the Mmojo Server Repo today? If not, run this first:
```
mm-update-local-mmojo-server-repo.sh
. mm-environment-variables.sh
```
</details>

---
### Clone Repos
Clone llama.cpp repo and repos upon which it depends into a `$BUILD_LLAMA_CPP_DIR` directory.

This script clones the llama.cpp repo and repos upon which it depends into the `$BUILD_LLAMA_CPP_DIR` directory:
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Clone-Repos.sh" target="_blank">401-Clone-Repos.sh</a>.
  - *On Github, you may need to right-click and choose "Open link in new tab" to open the "View script" links in a new tab.*
    <br/>
    <br/>
- Run the script. We run with `.` so variables can be defined and exported.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Clone-Repos.sh
  ```

---
### Patch llama.cpp Source Code and Build Code
This looks like lots of fun.
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh" target="_blank">401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh
  ```

---
### Customize WebUI
Customize the web UI, rebuild all the web files.
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Customize-webui.sh" target="_blank">401-Customize-webui.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Customize-webui.sh
  ```
#### Uh. Oh. npm Spit Out Errors

You may have an earlier version of `npm` and `nodejs` installed on your build machine than are required
for that customization step. If you're running Linux or macOS, these steps should clean that up.

**ONLY RUN THESE IF YOU HAD PROBLEMS IN THE PREVIOUS STEP!!** Then rerun the previous step.
```
# cd ~
sudo apt remove nodejs npm -y
sudo apt install nodejs npm -y
sudo npm install -g node@latest
sudo npm install -g npm@latest
# cd ~/$BUILD_MMOJO_SERVER_DIR
```

---
### SHORTCUT: Run All the Above Scripts 
I really think you should run through these scripts one at a time the first few times you build, so you can familiarize yourself with the process and know what goes where. But, now that you've run through a few times, you can use the shortcut snippet:
```
################################################################################
# SHORTCUT: DON'T DO THIS IF YOU ALREADY RAN SCRIPTS ABOVE!
################################################################################
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Clone-Repos.sh
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Customize-webui.sh
```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [402. Prepare to Test](402-Prepare-to-Test.md)
- **Previous:** This is the first step in this section.
- **Up:** [400. Build Dogpile](400-Build-Dogpile.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)

Commit message:

Shortcuts, node and npm reinstall, misc cleanup. (#35)
* Update 201-Prepare-WSL.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 406-Build-CUDA.md

* Update 407-Build-Vulkan.md

* Update 405-Build-CPU-Native.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 405-Build-CPU-Native.md

* Update 406-Build-CUDA.md

* Update 407-Build-Vulkan.md

* Update 403-Build-Debug.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 302-Copy-Models.md

* Update 301-Download-Models.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 403-Build-Debug.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update loading-mmojo.html

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 101-Project-Goals.md

* Update 101-Project-Goals.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 207-Install-Dependencies.sh

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

instructions/dogpile/401-Prepare-to-Build.md, after:

## 401. Prepare to Build
### About Dogpile
**Dogpile** is an example of a branded developer experience. [Read more about Dogpile](400-Build-Dogpile.md).

---
### About this Step
In this step, we will clone the Mmojo-Server repo, fix problems that affect building with Cosmopolitan, and customize things for building Dogpile.

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

**Shortcut:** [Scroll down](#shortcut-run-all-the-above-scripts).

---
<details>
  <summary><b>Update Local Mmojo Server Repo</b> &mdash; Expand if you haven't today.</summary>
  
Have you updated your local clone of the Mmojo Server Repo today? If not, run this first:
```
mm-update-local-mmojo-server-repo.sh
. mm-environment-variables.sh
```
</details>

---
### Clone Repos
Clone llama.cpp repo and repos upon which it depends into a `$BUILD_LLAMA_CPP_DIR` directory.

This script clones the llama.cpp repo and repos upon which it depends into the `$BUILD_LLAMA_CPP_DIR` directory:
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Clone-Repos.sh" target="_blank">401-Clone-Repos.sh</a>.
  - *On Github, you may need to right-click and choose "Open link in new tab" to open the "View script" links in a new tab.*
    <br/>
    <br/>
- Run the script. We run with `.` so variables can be defined and exported.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Clone-Repos.sh
  ```

---
### Patch llama.cpp Source Code and Build Code
This looks like lots of fun.
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh" target="_blank">401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh
  ```

---
### Customize WebUI
Customize the web UI, rebuild all the web files.
- View the script: <a href="../../scripts/dogpile/401-Customize-webui.sh" target="_blank">401-Customize-webui.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Customize-webui.sh
  ```
#### Uh. Oh. npm Spit Out Errors

You may have an earlier version of `npm` and `nodejs` installed on your build machine than are required for that customization step. If you're running Linux or macOS, these steps should clean that up. This reinstall is already in this step: [207. Install Dependencies](../207-Install-Dependencies.md). I'm leaving this workaround here until I'm sure it's not needed.

**ONLY RUN THESE IF YOU HAD PROBLEMS IN THE PREVIOUS STEP!!** Then rerun the previous step.
```
sudo apt remove nodejs npm -y
sudo apt install nodejs npm -y
sudo npm install -g node@latest
sudo npm install -g npm@latest
```

---
### SHORTCUT: Run All the Above Scripts 
I really think you should run through these scripts one at a time the first few times you build, so you can familiarize yourself with the process and know what goes where. But, now that you've run through a few times, you can use the shortcut snippet:
```
################################################################################
# SHORTCUT: DON'T DO THIS IF YOU ALREADY RAN SCRIPTS ABOVE!
################################################################################
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Clone-Repos.sh
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Fix-llama-cpp.sh
$DOGPILE_SCRIPTS/401-Customize-webui.sh
```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [402. Prepare to Test](402-Prepare-to-Test.md)
- **Previous:** This is the first step in this section.
- **Up:** [400. Build Dogpile](400-Build-Dogpile.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)
