files/Maintenance.md, before:

## Maintenance

These are the instructions for maintaining the files rooted in this directory.

1. Switch to the `work-in-progress` branch for this page.

2. Open the original versions in the llama.cpp repo and the patched versions from this repo (twice) in new tabs:
   - llama.cpp - [common/arg.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/arg.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/arg-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/arg-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/arg-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/arg-mmojo.cpp)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [common/common.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/common.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/common-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/common-mmojo.cpp)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [common/common.h](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/common.h) -- **This can be easily patched with code.**
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common.h](/files/common/common.h)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common.h](/files/common/common.h)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [tools/server/server.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/tools/server/server.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp](/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp](/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp)

3. Compare last modified dates of the originals and patched files. Discard tab triplets where the original is older.
   <img width="304" height="82" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8814cc1-e244-4ac5-a4d5-e61fa9f339ad" />

4. Edit the middle tab of tab triplet. Copy left tab file contents. Paste into middle tab edit area.

5. Search for `mmojo-server START` in right tab of tablet triplet. Repeatedly copy those blocks from right tab and paste into middle tab.

6. Commit changes to middle tab

7. Edit the script that clones llama.cpp and change the rollback point. More details needed here.

   <img width="205" height="180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9beadab3-9b4f-4435-9c0b-41edb728a590" />

Commit message:

Work in progress (#21)
* Update 102-Project-Features.md

* Update 102-Project-Features.md

* Update 200-Prepare-Build-Environment.md

* Update 201-Prepare-WSL.md

* Update 201-Prepare-WSL.md

* Update 302-Create-Models-Directory.sh

* Update 302-Download-Models.md

* Update 303-Copy-Models.md

* Update 303-Copy-Models.md

* Update 302-Create-Models-Directory.sh

* Update 303-Copy-Models.sh

* Update 304-Build-Cosmopolitan.md

* Update 405-Build-APE.md

* Update 304-Build-Cosmopolitan.md

* Update 305-Build-OpenSSL.md

* Update 306-Install-CUDA-Toolkit.md

* Update 306-Install-CUDA-Toolkit.md

* Update 402-Clone-Repos.sh

* Update common-mmojo.cpp

* Update common.h

* Update 402-Clone-Repos.sh

* Update server-mmojo.cpp

* Update server-mmojo.cpp

* Update 403-Prepare-to-Test.md

* Update 306-Install-CUDA-Toolkit.md

* Update 307-Build-Vulkan-SDK.md

* Update mm-environment-variables.sh

* Update 304-Build-Cosmopolitan.md

* Update 302-Download-Models.md

* Update 303-Copy-Models.md

* Update 304-Build-Cosmopolitan.md

* Update 305-Build-OpenSSL.md

* Update 306-Install-CUDA-Toolkit.md

* Update 307-Build-Vulkan-SDK.md

* Update Maintenance.md

* Update mm-environment-variables.sh

* Update 307-Download-Build-vulkan.sh

* Update 201-Prepare-WSL.md

files/Maintenance.md, after:

## Maintenance

These are the instructions for maintaining the files rooted in this directory. This turns into a mess if we're in the middle of rapid fire commits to llama.cpp. Test builds after maintenance!

1. Switch to the `work-in-progress` branch for this page.

2. Open the original versions in the llama.cpp repo and the patched versions from this repo (twice) in new tabs:
   - llama.cpp - [common/arg.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/arg.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/arg-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/arg-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/arg-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/arg-mmojo.cpp)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [common/common.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/common.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/common-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common-mmojo.cpp](/files/common/common-mmojo.cpp)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [common/common.h](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/common/common.h) -- **This can be easily patched with code.**
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common.h](/files/common/common.h)
     - Mmojo Server - [common/common.h](/files/common/common.h)<br/><br/>
   
   - llama.cpp - [tools/server/server.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/tools/server/server.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp](/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp)
     - Mmojo Server - [tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp](/files/tools/server/server-mmojo.cpp)

3. Compare last modified dates of the originals and patched files. Discard tab triplets where the original is older.
   <img width="304" height="82" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8814cc1-e244-4ac5-a4d5-e61fa9f339ad" />

4. Edit the middle tab of tab triplet. Copy left tab file contents. Paste into middle tab edit area.

5. Search for `mmojo-server START` in right tab of tablet triplet. Repeatedly copy those blocks from right tab and paste into middle tab.

6. Commit changes to middle tab

7. Edit the script that clones llama.cpp and change the rollback point. More details needed here.

   <img width="205" height="180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9beadab3-9b4f-4435-9c0b-41edb728a590" />
