docs/103-Create-Mmojo-Share.md, before:

## 103. Create Mmojo Share

Brad Hutchings<br/>
brad@bradhutchings.com

---
### About the Step
The Mmojo Share is a file share where I keep files for local access and completed builds. It lets me build different items on different build platforms. I use a Ubuntu 24.04 virtual machine to build and test x86_64 and cosmo builds. I use a Raspberry Pi for building and testing ARM64 and Pi specific builds. The Mmojo Share lets me keep .gguf models to test with locally and is where I copy completed and packaged builds. Your Mmojo Share will help you organize your builds as well.

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Mmojo Share
Create an SMB share on a computer on your network. It should have a user and password so you can access it from your build systems. Write down the hostname of the computer, and the user that can access the share.

---
### Mount Mmojo Share

1. We need some variables:
   ```
   SHARE_DIR="/mnt/mmojo"
   SCRIPTS_DIR="$HOME/scripts"
   TILDE_SCRIPTS="~/scripts"
   MOUNT_SCRIPT="mount-mmojo-share.sh"
   ```
2. Create `/mnt/mmojo` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SHARE_DIR" ]; then
       sudo mkdir -p $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   ```
3. Create `$HOME/scripts` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SCRIPTS_DIR" ]; then
       mkdir -p $SCRIPTS_DIR
   fi
   ```
4. Create a `mount-mmojo-share.sh` script.
   ```
   cat << EOF > "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   if [[ ! \$(findmnt $SHARE_DIR) ]]; then
       sudo mount -t cifs -o user=[USER] //[COMPUTER]/mmojo $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   EOF
   chmod a+x "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
5. Edit the script to put your `COMPUTER` and `USER` names in. "Ctrl-X" then "Y" to exit and save.
   ```
   nano "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
6. If `~/scripts` is not already in the `$PATH`, add `~/scripts` to your `$PATH` in `.bashrc` and `source` `.bashrc`.
   ```
   if [[ "${PATH}" != *"${SCRIPTS_DIR}"* ]] && [[ "${PATH}" != *"${TILDE_SCRIPTS}"* ]]; then
   cat << EOF >> $HOME/.bashrc
   export PATH="$PATH:$SCRIPTS_DIR"
   EOF
   source $HOME/.bashrc
   fi
   echo $PATH
   ```
7. Mount the Mmojo share and list its contents.
   ```
   mount-mmojo-share.sh
   ls -al /mnt/mmojo
   ```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [104. Install Dependencies](104-Install-Dependencies.md)
- **Previous:** [102. Set Timezone](102-Set-Timezone.md)
- **Up:** [100. Prepare Build Environment](100-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)

Commit message:

Revise Mmojo Share step and update next link
Updated the Mmojo Share documentation to include a note about manual substeps and changed the next step link.

docs/103-Create-Mmojo-Share.md, after:

## 103. Create Mmojo Share

Brad Hutchings<br/>
brad@bradhutchings.com

---
### About the Step
The Mmojo Share is a file share where I keep files for local access and completed builds. It lets me build different items on different build platforms. I use a Ubuntu 24.04 virtual machine to build and test x86_64 and cosmo builds. I use a Raspberry Pi for building and testing ARM64 and Pi specific builds. The Mmojo Share lets me keep .gguf models to test with locally and is where I copy completed and packaged builds. Your Mmojo Share will help you organize your builds as well.

This step is a sequence of manual substeps (below). This will help you become familiar with how mounting a share works, if you're not already. We have it automated in the next step: [104-Create-Mmojo-Share (Automated)](104-Create-Mmojo-Share-Automated.md).

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Mmojo Share
Create an SMB share on a computer on your network. It should have a user and password so you can access it from your build systems. Write down the hostname of the computer, and the user that can access the share.

---
### Mount Mmojo Share

1. We need some variables:
   ```
   SHARE_DIR="/mnt/mmojo"
   SCRIPTS_DIR="$HOME/scripts"
   TILDE_SCRIPTS="~/scripts"
   MOUNT_SCRIPT="mount-mmojo-share.sh"
   ```
2. Create `/mnt/mmojo` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SHARE_DIR" ]; then
       sudo mkdir -p $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   ```
3. Create `$HOME/scripts` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SCRIPTS_DIR" ]; then
       mkdir -p $SCRIPTS_DIR
   fi
   ```
4. Create a `mount-mmojo-share.sh` script.
   ```
   cat << EOF > "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   if [[ ! \$(findmnt $SHARE_DIR) ]]; then
       sudo mount -t cifs -o user=[USER] //[COMPUTER]/mmojo $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   EOF
   chmod a+x "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
5. Edit the script to put your `COMPUTER` and `USER` names in. "Ctrl-X" then "Y" to exit and save.
   ```
   nano "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
6. If `~/scripts` is not already in the `$PATH`, add `~/scripts` to your `$PATH` in `.bashrc` and `source` `.bashrc`.
   ```
   if [[ "${PATH}" != *"${SCRIPTS_DIR}"* ]] && [[ "${PATH}" != *"${TILDE_SCRIPTS}"* ]]; then
   cat << EOF >> $HOME/.bashrc
   export PATH="$PATH:$SCRIPTS_DIR"
   EOF
   source $HOME/.bashrc
   fi
   echo $PATH
   ```
7. Mount the Mmojo share and list its contents.
   ```
   mount-mmojo-share.sh
   ls -al /mnt/mmojo
   ```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [104-Create-Mmojo-Share (Automated)](104-Create-Mmojo-Share-Automated.md)
- **Previous:** [102. Set Timezone](102-Set-Timezone.md)
- **Up:** [100. Prepare Build Environment](100-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)
