docs/104-Create-Mmojo-Share-Automated.md, before:

## 104. Create Mmojo Share (Automated)

Brad Hutchings<br/>
brad@bradhutchings.com

---
### About the Step
The Mmojo Share is a file share where I keep files for local access and completed builds. It lets me build different items on different build platforms. I use a Ubuntu 24.04 virtual machine to build and test x86_64 and cosmo builds. I use a Raspberry Pi for building and testing ARM64 and Pi specific builds. The Mmojo Share lets me keep .gguf models to test with locally and is where I copy completed and packaged builds. Your Mmojo Share will help you organize your builds as well.

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Mmojo Share
Create an SMB share on a computer on your network. It should have a user and password so you can access it from your build systems. Write down the hostname of the computer, and the user that can access the share.

---
### Mount Mmojo Share

**AUTOM<ATED THIS AS A SCRIPT TO RUN.**

1. We need some variables:
   ```
   SHARE_DIR="/mnt/mmojo"
   SCRIPTS_DIR="$HOME/scripts"
   TILDE_SCRIPTS="~/scripts"
   MOUNT_SCRIPT="mount-mmojo-share.sh"
   ```
2. Create `/mnt/mmojo` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SHARE_DIR" ]; then
       sudo mkdir -p $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   ```
3. Create `$HOME/scripts` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SCRIPTS_DIR" ]; then
       mkdir -p $SCRIPTS_DIR
   fi
   ```
4. Create a `mount-mmojo-share.sh` script.
   ```
   cat << EOF > "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   if [[ ! \$(findmnt $SHARE_DIR) ]]; then
       sudo mount -t cifs -o user=[USER] //[COMPUTER]/mmojo $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   EOF
   chmod a+x "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
5. Edit the script to put your `COMPUTER` and `USER` names in. "Ctrl-X" then "Y" to exit and save.
   ```
   nano "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
6. If `~/scripts` is not already in the `$PATH`, add `~/scripts` to your `$PATH` in `.bashrc` and `source` `.bashrc`.
   ```
   if [[ "${PATH}" != *"${SCRIPTS_DIR}"* ]] && [[ "${PATH}" != *"${TILDE_SCRIPTS}"* ]]; then
   cat << EOF >> $HOME/.bashrc
   export PATH="$PATH:$SCRIPTS_DIR"
   EOF
   source $HOME/.bashrc
   fi
   echo $PATH
   ```
7. Mount the Mmojo share and list its contents.
   ```
   mount-mmojo-share.sh
   ls -al /mnt/mmojo
   ```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [105. Install Dependencies](105-Install-Dependencies.md)
- **Previous:** [103. Create Mmojo Share](103-Create-Mmojo-Share.md)
- **Up:** [100. Prepare Build Environment](100-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)

Commit message:

Update Mmojo Share documentation with automation details
Added information about automation and manual steps for mounting shares.

docs/104-Create-Mmojo-Share-Automated.md, after:

## 104. Create Mmojo Share (Automated)

Brad Hutchings<br/>
brad@bradhutchings.com

---
### About the Step
The Mmojo Share is a file share where I keep files for local access and completed builds. It lets me build different items on different build platforms. I use a Ubuntu 24.04 virtual machine to build and test x86_64 and cosmo builds. I use a Raspberry Pi for building and testing ARM64 and Pi specific builds. The Mmojo Share lets me keep .gguf models to test with locally and is where I copy completed and packaged builds. Your Mmojo Share will help you organize your builds as well.

This step is automated (below). If you're not familiar with how mounting shares works on Linux, I have manual steps in the previous step: [103, Create Mmojo Share](103-Create-Mmojo-Share.md).

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Mmojo Share
Create an SMB share on a computer on your network. It should have a user and password so you can access it from your build systems. Write down the hostname of the computer, and the user that can access the share.

---
### Mount Mmojo Share

**AUTOM<ATED THIS AS A SCRIPT TO RUN.**

1. We need some variables:
   ```
   SHARE_DIR="/mnt/mmojo"
   SCRIPTS_DIR="$HOME/scripts"
   TILDE_SCRIPTS="~/scripts"
   MOUNT_SCRIPT="mount-mmojo-share.sh"
   ```
2. Create `/mnt/mmojo` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SHARE_DIR" ]; then
       sudo mkdir -p $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   ```
3. Create `$HOME/scripts` directory.
   ```
   if [ ! -d "$SCRIPTS_DIR" ]; then
       mkdir -p $SCRIPTS_DIR
   fi
   ```
4. Create a `mount-mmojo-share.sh` script.
   ```
   cat << EOF > "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   if [[ ! \$(findmnt $SHARE_DIR) ]]; then
       sudo mount -t cifs -o user=[USER] //[COMPUTER]/mmojo $SHARE_DIR
   fi
   EOF
   chmod a+x "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
5. Edit the script to put your `COMPUTER` and `USER` names in. "Ctrl-X" then "Y" to exit and save.
   ```
   nano "$SCRIPTS_DIR/$MOUNT_SCRIPT"
   ```
6. If `~/scripts` is not already in the `$PATH`, add `~/scripts` to your `$PATH` in `.bashrc` and `source` `.bashrc`.
   ```
   if [[ "${PATH}" != *"${SCRIPTS_DIR}"* ]] && [[ "${PATH}" != *"${TILDE_SCRIPTS}"* ]]; then
   cat << EOF >> $HOME/.bashrc
   export PATH="$PATH:$SCRIPTS_DIR"
   EOF
   source $HOME/.bashrc
   fi
   echo $PATH
   ```
7. Mount the Mmojo share and list its contents.
   ```
   mount-mmojo-share.sh
   ls -al /mnt/mmojo
   ```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [105. Install Dependencies](105-Install-Dependencies.md)
- **Previous:** [103. Create Mmojo Share](103-Create-Mmojo-Share.md)
- **Up:** [100. Prepare Build Environment](100-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)
