docs/302-Download-Models.md, before:

## 302. Download Models
### About this Step - DO THIS ONCE
In this step, we will download some `gguf` files we will need from Hugging Face and copy them to our Mmojo share for later use.

If you already have models downloaded and copied to your Mmojo share, please proceed to: [303. Copy Models](303-Copy-Models.md).

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Models Directory
This script creates the `$MODELS_DIR` and adds a simple model map to it:
- View the script: <a href="../scripts/302-Create-Models-Directory.sh" target="_blank">302-Create-Models-Directory.sh</a>.
  - *On Github, you may need to right-click and choose "Open link in new tab" to open the "View script" links in a new tab.*
    <br/>
    <br/>
- Run the script. We run with `.` so variables can be defined and exported.
  ```
  . mm-environment-variables.sh
  $MMOJO_SERVER_SCRIPTS/302-Create-Models-Directory.sh
  ```

---
### OPTIONAL: Download Model Map
If you plan to create `mmojo-server-one` Actual Portable Executables (APEs) with embedded models, you should download some models that are tested to work with `mmojo-server`. We'll download a model map from Hugging Face.

This script downloads the model map from Hugging Face:
- View the script: <a href="../scripts/302-Download-Model-Map.sh" target="_blank">302-Download-Model-Map.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $MMOJO_SERVER_SCRIPTS/302-Download-Model-Map.sh
  ```

#### OPTIONAL: Edit the Model Map
All these models will take a long time to download, so you can edit the model map and remove models you don't want.
```
nano $MODEL_MAP
```

---
### Download Models
Download the models from Hugging Face.
```
DownloadModel() {
  MODEL_FILE=$1
  URL="https://huggingface.co/bradhutchings/Mmojo-Server/resolve/main/models/$MODEL_FILE?download=true"
  if [ ! -f $MODEL_FILE ]; then wget $URL --show-progress --quiet -O $MODEL_FILE ; fi
}

cd $MODELS_DIR
unset apefiles
declare -A apefiles

while IFS=$' ' read -r gguf apefile ; do
  if [[ "$gguf" != "#" ]] && [[ -n "$gguf" ]]; then
    apefiles["${gguf}"]="${apefile}"
  fi
done < "$MODEL_MAP"

for key in "${!apefiles[@]}"; do
  DownloadModel $key 
done

cd $HOME

echo -e "\nModels directory:"
ls -al $MODELS_DIR/*.gguf

printf "\n**********\n*\n* FINISHED: Download Models.\n*\n**********\n\n"
```

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [303. Copy Models](303-Copy-Models.md)
- **Previous:** [301. Update Local Mmojo Server Repo](301-Update-Local-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md)
- **Up:** [300. Gather Build Pieces](300-Gather-Build-Pieces.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)

Commit message:

Work in progress (#12)
* Update 201-Create-Scripts-and-Tools-Directories.md

* Update 202-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 201-Create-Scripts-and-Tools-Directories.md

* Update 205-Mount-Mmojo-Share.md

* Update 206-Install-Dependencies.md

* Update 206-Install-Dependencies.md

* Update 301-Update-Local-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Create 302-Download-Models.sh

* Update 302-Download-Models.md

* Create 303-Copy-Models.sh

* Update 302-Download-Models.sh

* Update mm-update-local-mmojo-server-repo.sh

* Update 303-Copy-Models.md

docs/302-Download-Models.md, after:

## 302. Download Models
### About this Step - DO THIS ONCE
In this step, we will download some `gguf` files we will need from Hugging Face and copy them to our Mmojo share for later use.

If you already have models downloaded and copied to your Mmojo share, please proceed to: [303. Copy Models](303-Copy-Models.md).

**Where:** Perform this step in both your x86_64 and your aarch64 (arm64) build environments.

---
### Create Models Directory
This script creates the `$MODELS_DIR` and adds a simple model map to it:
- View the script: <a href="../scripts/302-Create-Models-Directory.sh" target="_blank">302-Create-Models-Directory.sh</a>.
  - *On Github, you may need to right-click and choose "Open link in new tab" to open the "View script" links in a new tab.*
    <br/>
    <br/>
- Run the script. We run with `.` so variables can be defined and exported.
  ```
  . mm-environment-variables.sh
  $MMOJO_SERVER_SCRIPTS/302-Create-Models-Directory.sh
  ```

---
### OPTIONAL: Download Model Map
If you plan to create `mmojo-server-one` Actual Portable Executables (APEs) with embedded models, you should download some models that are tested to work with `mmojo-server`. We'll download a model map from Hugging Face.

This script downloads the model map from Hugging Face:
- View the script: <a href="../scripts/302-Download-Model-Map.sh" target="_blank">302-Download-Model-Map.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $MMOJO_SERVER_SCRIPTS/302-Download-Model-Map.sh
  ```

#### OPTIONAL: Edit the Model Map
All these models will take a long time to download, so you can edit the model map and remove models you don't want.
```
nano $MODEL_MAP
```

---
### Download Models
This script downloads the models from Hugging Face:
- View the script: <a href="../scripts/302-Download-Models.sh" target="_blank">302-Download-Models.sh</a>.
- Run the script.
  ```
  $MMOJO_SERVER_SCRIPTS/302-Download-Models.sh
  ```

<!--
Download the models from Hugging Face.
```
DownloadModel() {
  MODEL_FILE=$1
  URL="https://huggingface.co/bradhutchings/Mmojo-Server/resolve/main/models/$MODEL_FILE?download=true"
  if [ ! -f $MODEL_FILE ]; then wget $URL --show-progress --quiet -O $MODEL_FILE ; fi
}

cd $MODELS_DIR
unset apefiles
declare -A apefiles

while IFS=$' ' read -r gguf apefile ; do
  if [[ "$gguf" != "#" ]] && [[ -n "$gguf" ]]; then
    apefiles["${gguf}"]="${apefile}"
  fi
done < "$MODEL_MAP"

for key in "${!apefiles[@]}"; do
  DownloadModel $key 
done

cd $HOME

echo -e "\nModels directory:"
ls -al $MODELS_DIR/*.gguf

printf "\n**********\n*\n* FINISHED: Download Models.\n*\n**********\n\n"
```
-->

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [303. Copy Models](303-Copy-Models.md)
- **Previous:** [301. Update Local Mmojo Server Repo](301-Update-Local-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md)
- **Up:** [300. Gather Build Pieces](300-Gather-Build-Pieces.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)
