instructions/201-Prepare-WSL.md, before:

## 201. Prepare WSL

### About this Step
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) lets you run a full Linux distribution directly on Windows. Let's create and configure a WSL instance for Mmojo Server development.

Note for developer newbies: Windows cmd shell and PowerShell use a backslash `\` for file system paths. Linux shells use a forward slash `/` for paths and a backslash `\` for escaping characters like `$` in strings. I mostly use the Linux style slashes in these instructions because they're for Linux.

**Where:** Perform this step with and inside your WSL environment on Windows.

---
### Delete your Existing `MmojoServerBuild` WSL Instance
If you have a previous `MmojoServerBuild` WSL instance, let's delete it. We're going to start from scratch with a new one.

Open a **Terminal** (or **PowerShell**) window. Verify that your instance exists and is stopped:
```
wsl --list --verbose
```

Unregister ("delete") the instance:
```
wsl --unregister MmojoServerBuild
```

If you previously pinned `MmojoServerBuild` to your **Taskbar**, unpin it. The existing pinned shortcut one will not launch the new instance you will create.

---
### Create New `MmojoServerBuild` WSL Instance
Still in the **Terminal**, register a new instance:
```
wsl --install Ubuntu --name MmojoServerBuild
```

A Ubuntu instance will be downloaded and installed. After a couple of minutes, you will be prompted for a user name and password. I like to use `linux` and `admin123!`.
```
linux
```
```
admin123!
```

---
### Disable `[interop]`
Let's diable interoperability with the host Windows environment so we don't have our WSL `$PATH` polluted and won't have problems launching APE files inside WSL.

Check that `/etc/wsl.conf` doesn't already have an `[interop]` section:
```
cd $HOME
cat /etc/wsl.conf
```

Append an `[interop]` section to `/etc/wsl.conf`:
```
cp /etc/wsl.conf ./wsl.conf
cat << EOF >> wsl.conf

[interop]
enabled=false
appendWindowsPath=false
EOF
sudo mv ./wsl.conf /etc/wsl.conf
```

You'll be prompted for your `sudo` password:
```
admin123!
```

Check that `/etc/wsl.conf` now has an `[interop]` section:
```
cat /etc/wsl.conf
```

---
### Remove sudo Timeout
You will use the `sudo` command often, so let's make it not expire.
```
sudo visudo
```

Below the first `Defaults` section, paste this:
```
Defaults        env_reset,timestamp_timeout=-1
```
<img width="926" height="134" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7793f414-3f52-4c38-93ee-801584e8b102" />

`Ctrl-X`, then `Y`, then `Enter` to save and exit.

Now, poweroff the WSL instance:
```
sudo poweroff
```

The **Terminal** app will revert back to a PowerShell prompt.

*Note: This would be a good place to set up hostname and networking for the instance if we wanted to do that.*

---
### Move the WSL `.vhdx` Virual Disk
In 2025, advanced Windows users like you have a startup drive for Windows stuff and applications and a separate (fast, larger) drive for your data. The virtual disk for your WSL instance will get pretty big, i.e. 50 GB or 100 GB. You should move it to another drive.

The **Terminal** app should show a PowerShell prompt. Create a destination directory on the `D:` drive:
```
mkdir -p D:\wsl
```

Wait a couple minutes for WSL to completely shut down the instance you just created. Then move its virtual drive:
```
wsl --manage MmojoServerBuild --move D:\wsl
```

If you get a `WSL_E_DISTRO_NOT_STOPPED` or an `ERROR_SHARING_VIOLATION`, wait a minute, then try again.

---
### Pin MmojoServerBuild to the Taskbar
Click your **Start** menu. Search for:
```
MmojoServerBuild
```
Add it to the **Taskbar**.

---
### Launch MmojoServerBuild

Launch and log into your new instance by clicking the icon you just added to the **Taskbar**.

---
### Start from Scratch Often
It's OK to start from scratch and do it often. There is a lot going on to build and package Mmojo Server. There are a lot of moving parts. When you get stuck, save your sanity and start over.

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [202. Create Scripts Directory](202-Create-Scripts-Directory.md)
- **Previous:** This is the first step in this section.
- **Up:** [200. Prepare Build Environment](200-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)

Commit message:

Shortcuts, node and npm reinstall, misc cleanup. (#35)
* Update 201-Prepare-WSL.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 406-Build-CUDA.md

* Update 407-Build-Vulkan.md

* Update 405-Build-CPU-Native.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 405-Build-CPU-Native.md

* Update 406-Build-CUDA.md

* Update 407-Build-Vulkan.md

* Update 403-Build-Debug.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 302-Copy-Models.md

* Update 301-Download-Models.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 403-Build-Debug.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update loading-mmojo.html

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 404-Build-APE.md

* Update 101-Project-Goals.md

* Update 101-Project-Goals.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 203-Clone-Mmojo-Server-Repo.md

* Update 207-Install-Dependencies.sh

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

* Update 401-Prepare-to-Build.md

instructions/201-Prepare-WSL.md, after:

## 201. Prepare WSL

### About this Step
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) lets you run a full Linux distribution directly on Windows. Let's create and configure a WSL instance for Mmojo Server development.

Note for developer newbies: Windows cmd shell and PowerShell use a backslash `\` for file system paths. Linux shells use a forward slash `/` for paths and a backslash `\` for escaping characters like `$` in strings. I mostly use the Linux style slashes in these instructions because they're for Linux.

**Where:** Perform this step with and inside your WSL environment on Windows.

---
### Delete your Existing `MmojoServerBuild` WSL Instance
If you have a previous `MmojoServerBuild` WSL instance, let's delete it. We're going to start from scratch with a new one.

Open a **Terminal** (or **PowerShell**) window. Verify that your instance exists and is stopped:
```
wsl --list --verbose
```

Unregister ("delete") the instance:
```
wsl --unregister MmojoServerBuild
```

If you previously pinned `MmojoServerBuild` to your **Taskbar**, unpin it. The existing pinned shortcut one will not launch the new instance you will create.

---
### Create New `MmojoServerBuild` WSL Instance
Still in the **Terminal**, register a new instance:
```
wsl --install Ubuntu --name MmojoServerBuild
```

A Ubuntu instance will be downloaded and installed. After a couple of minutes, you will be prompted for a user name and password. I like to use `linux` and `admin123!`.
```
linux
```
```
admin123!
```

---
### Disable `[interop]`
Let's diable interoperability with the host Windows environment so we don't have our WSL `$PATH` polluted and won't have problems launching APE files inside WSL.

Check that `/etc/wsl.conf` doesn't already have an `[interop]` section:
```
cd $HOME
cat /etc/wsl.conf
```

Append an `[interop]` section to `/etc/wsl.conf`:
```
cp /etc/wsl.conf ./wsl.conf
cat << EOF >> wsl.conf

[interop]
enabled=false
appendWindowsPath=false
EOF
sudo mv ./wsl.conf /etc/wsl.conf
```

You'll be prompted for your `sudo` password:
```
admin123!
```

Check that `/etc/wsl.conf` now has an `[interop]` section:
```
cat /etc/wsl.conf
```

---
### Remove sudo Timeout
You will use the `sudo` command often, so let's make it not expire.
```
sudo visudo
```

Below the first `Defaults` section, paste this:
```
Defaults        env_reset,timestamp_timeout=-1
```
<img width="926" height="134" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7793f414-3f52-4c38-93ee-801584e8b102" />

`Ctrl-X`, then `Y`, then `Enter` to save and exit.

---
### Power Off the WSL Instance
Now, poweroff the WSL instance:
```
sudo poweroff
```

The **Terminal** app will revert back to a PowerShell prompt.

*Note: This would be a good place to set up hostname and networking for the instance if we wanted to do that.*

---
### Move the WSL `.vhdx` Virual Disk
In 2025, advanced Windows users like you have a startup drive for Windows stuff and applications and a separate (fast, larger) drive for your data. The virtual disk for your WSL instance will get pretty big, i.e. 50 GB or 100 GB. You should move it to another drive.

The **Terminal** app should show a PowerShell prompt. Create a destination directory on the `D:` drive:
```
mkdir -p D:\wsl
```

Wait a couple minutes for WSL to completely shut down the instance you just created. Then move its virtual drive:
```
wsl --manage MmojoServerBuild --move D:\wsl
```

If you get a `WSL_E_DISTRO_NOT_STOPPED` or an `ERROR_SHARING_VIOLATION`, wait a minute, then try again.

---
### Pin MmojoServerBuild to the Taskbar
Click your **Start** menu. Search for:
```
MmojoServerBuild
```
Add it to the **Taskbar**.

---
### Launch MmojoServerBuild

Launch and log into your new instance by clicking the icon you just added to the **Taskbar**.

Now, let's get a `sudo` password in, so we don't have to enter it again this session.
```
sudo echo "Mmojo Server!"
```

You'll be prompted for your `sudo` password:
```
admin123!
```

---
### Start from Scratch Often
It's OK to start from scratch and do it often. There is a lot going on to build and package Mmojo Server. There are a lot of moving parts. When you get stuck, save your sanity and start over.

---
### Proceed
- **Next:** [202. Create Scripts Directory](202-Create-Scripts-Directory.md)
- **Previous:** This is the first step in this section.
- **Up:** [200. Prepare Build Environment](200-Prepare-Build-Environment.md)

---
[MIT License](/LICENSE)<br/>
Copyright (c) 2025 [Brad Hutchings](mailto:brad@bradhutchings.com)<br/>
[https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server](https://github.com/BradHutchings/Mmojo-Server)
